well howdy there Internet people its
Bella GaN so tonight we are going to
talk about icebergs Bernie Goetz and the
unsaid there's a theory in storytelling
it has been around since storytelling
first started but it was Ernest
Hemingway who gave it a name and he
called it the iceberg theory iceberg
principle the idea behind it simply put
is that you can delete or omit any
detail any event anything out of a story
as long as you the storyteller knows
it's supposed to be there as long as you
know it's supposed to be there and
you're conscious of that the rest of the
details the rest of the action will clue
the reader or listener in and they'll
fill in that gap creates that subtext
it's a theory I definitely believe in we
talked about it and when we were talking
about Disney's icy princess clean and I
guess Elsa you know we did that video
and then in the comments section after
I've said what I saw someone is like you
know I I thought it was about somebody
who was neuro atypical maybe certainly
can be there's also a theory called the
death of the author and what that
basically means is once the storyteller
puts it out there for public consumption
their intentions and their beliefs what
they planned it doesn't matter anymore
only what's interpreted by the public is
what matters
xx subtext at times can be a little
dangerous
Hemingway was a master of subtext and
subtext is great because a lot of times
there are things you just can't talk
about you can't say it out loud
sometimes it's because social norms
dictate that you don't talk about those
subjects sometimes it's because there's
outright censorship and sometimes it's
just the climate of the time in 1984 not
the story of the year it was a scary
time was this scary time there aren't
many points in American history that are
like it there was ongoing trade issues
people were worried about trade deficits
foreign debts there was returning
soldiers just come home our government
being our government that means we had a
lot of uncared-for homeless vets crack
had just shown up AIDS had just shown up
in New York City crime rate was pretty
high it's uh I can't think of many times
like that in American history where you
have that that set of circumstances and
that brings us to Bernie Goetz his guy
on the subway and depending on the
information you got at the time when it
first happened for teens
older teens 17 18 19 somewhere in there
I'm not exactly sure of their ages you
have to look it up there's a whole bunch
of information on this well either they
came up to him to Panhandle or they came
up to him to mug him one of the two
now we know from later that at least one
of the four admitted yet that they were
going to mug him they thought he would
be an easy target
they were wrong he stood up bang bang
bang bang bang injured four and in flat
took off and when he took off created
that omission nobody knew what happened
so it had to be filled in with something
and that's when it started
public opinion went back and forth back
and forth was he a hero or a psycho it
all depended on what you heard they were
teens I can't believe that oh they all
had criminal records oh they had
sharpened screwdrivers you know before
he fired that last time he said here
have another now that's the stuff that
went out and there's more but a lot of
that's not true a lot of it was reported
as fact but not true people were filling
in the gaps because of the omission they
needed to fill in the gaps with
something and they tended to fill it in
with stuff that supported their opinion
their preconceived notion what they
thought was going to happen
it's something that still happens today
when there is an absence of information
people don't look at whiter pictures
they don't look at little bits of data
and trying to figure it out they grasp
for what they can find that will fill in
the blanks to create a story they like
it's something we should be aware of
because we are in a time just like 1984
both of them subtext in those omissions
they can be great they can be very
powerful for illustrating the truth they
can also be very dangerous if you allow
them if you allow it to delude yourself
and fill in the blanks in a way that
allows you to not challenge what you
believe anyway it's just a thought y'all
have a good night